h1=. Ryan Schremp

p=. 2933 Fish Hatchery Rd. apt 120
Fitchburg, WI 53713
ryan@brainwor.ms 
(608) 301-5346

h2. Skills

PHP, MySQL, MSSQL, Ruby, Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Git, SVN, Windows 9x, ME, NT, 2000, XP, Vista, Windows 7, MacOS 7-current, Linux/Unix administration, HTML, CSS, extensive hardware troubleshooting, network troubleshooting and maintenance, laptop repair, desktop repair, training for A+, CCNA, MCSE

h2. Education

*Herzing College* - Madison, WI - September 2005 to May 2006
Attended classes towards a degree in Interactive and Graphic arts.

h2. Technical Experience 

*Freelance web design*
_4/2006 - current_
Specializing in work and consulting in
* Web presence
* *LAMP*
* Server configuration

*Web Programmer* at Capital Newspapers/Madison.com 
_4/2008 - 11/2009_
* Created web applications in a *LAMP* environment.
* Used primarily the popular *Zend MVC* framework.
* Provided support for the server environment which consisted of 15 RedHat based *Linux* servers.
* Assisted in forming an upgrade path to bring the servers up to date. 
* Wrote applications in *Ruby* to streamline upkeep and optimization of old code base.
* Used Javascript and popular *AJAX* libraries to develop gadgets for a redesign of madison.com.
* Provided support for local organizations whose sites we hosted such as wisconsinhomes.com.
* Followed an on-call schedule rotation to provide support for the newsroom after business hours.
* Took the lead on improving the efficacy of our traffic reporting tool, Omniture.
* Collected traffic reports each month for presentation to our publishers.
* Assisted updating the legacy in-house publishing tool.
* Rewrote critical legacy Java application in *PHP*.
* Took the lead on implementing a wiki and trouble ticket system to improve departmental communication.
* Used multiple *SCM*s to communally manage source code.
* Lead the initiative to set security standards within the department.

*NOC Intern* at Berbee Information Networks 
_3/2007-4/2008_
* Assisted clients in racking and cabling their server hardware in the datacenter.
* Fielded phone calls from internal and external customers for technical support on...
** Blackberry Enterprise Server
** Hosted Exchange
** Hosted Sharepoint
** Dial-up Internet
** Shared web hosting
* Proposed and developed a web application using *PHP*, *MSSQL*, and *MySQL* to streamline client check-ins.
* Proposed and developed a web application using *PHP*, *MSSQL*, and *MySQL* to display work orders in a calendar format.

h2. Service Experience

Previously held many positions in customer service, technical support and sales with companies such as Sony Computers, CompUSA, and TDS Metrocom.